User facing mcp integration documentation (#118)
trento-project/docs: trento/adoc/trento-mcp-host-others.adoc

include::product-attributes.adoc[]

[[sec-trento-mcp-others]]
==== Integrating the {tr_mcp} with other {mcp_host}s
:revdate: 2025-11-25

The {tr_mcp} can be integrated with any client application that supports the Model Context Protocol. This allows interaction with the {trento} API and execute tools defined in the OpenAPI specification through your preferred AI assistant or development tool.

This guide uses Visual Studio Code with GitHub Copilot as the primary example, but the configuration patterns apply to any MCP-compatible host.

include::partials/mcp-host-prerequisites.adoc[]

===== Configuring Your MCP Host

> Once you have your {trserver} installation ready with the {tr_mcp} URL and API token, you can configure the MCP Host. The examples below show JSON configuration format, which is used by most MCP Hosts, including VS Code, Claude Desktop, and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have your {trserver} installation ready with the {tr_mcp} URL and API token, you can configure the MCP Server client. The examples below show JSON configuration format, which is used by most MCP Server clients, including VS Code, Claude Desktop, and others.
```

====== Option 1: Configuration with Prompted Input

> This configuration prompts you for your API key when the Host starts, keeping credentials secure and out of configuration files. The `password: true` setting ensures your API key input is masked when you type it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration prompts you for your personal access token when the client starts, keeping credentials secure and out of configuration files. The `password: true` setting ensures your personal access token input is masked when you type it.
```

====

[source,json]
----
{
  "servers": {
    "trento": {
      "type": "http",
      "url": "{https://trento.example.com/mcp-server-trento/mcp}",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "${input:trento-api-key}"
      }
    }
  },
  "inputs": [
    {
      "type": "promptString",
      "id": "trento-api-key",
      "description": "Trento API Key",
      "password": true
    }
  ]
}
----

====== Option 2: Direct Header Configuration

For {mcp_host}s that don't support prompted input, or for testing purposes, set your {trento} API key directly in the configuration file.

[WARNING]
====
When using this option, ensure your configuration file has appropriate permissions and is not committed to version control systems.
====
// if {tr_mcp_url_https} changes, update url too
[source,json]
----
{
  "servers": {
    "trento": {
      "type": "http",
      "url": "https://trento.example.com/mcp-server-trento/mcp",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "your-actual-trento-api-key-here"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

[NOTE]
====
Replace `{tr_mcp_url_https}` with your actual {tr_mcp} endpoint URL from your installation.
====

> ====== MCP Client Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====== Client Options
```
